---
title: "Restier 1.0 RC1"
description: "Released 2019-10-05: major DI refactor, simplified registration, decoupled EF provider"
sidebarTitle: "1.0 RC1"
---

# THE LONG-AWAITED RELEASE CANDIDATE IS HERE!
The team has been working hard these past 9 months to give you the best product possible. Leading up to this release, Restier services are powering US State agencies, restaurants, and startups around the globe. It has been thoroughly tested and is ready for you to build innovative apps.

## Release Notes

### Reporting Problems
If you encounter any problems, please [open a new Issue](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/issues/new) and label it "rc1".

### A Note on .NET Core Support
We know .NET Core is important, and Version 2 will be rebuilt from the ground up to support .NET Core 3.0. We expect that release to happen sometime in H1 2020. 

In the meantime, the recommended approach is to separate your APIs into an ASP.NET Classic WebApi app on .NET Framework 4.7.2, and leverage Entity Framework 6.3 (which can be used on both .NET Framework AND .NET Core) for your entities. This way, your front-end can still be ASP.NET Core, even if the APIs can't. 

_**We know this is not ideal**_ and as community members actively shipping Restier-powered .NET Core apps, we feel your pain. But it is a **battle-tested approach** that works _very_ well.

### New Features
- Dependency Injection has been significantly refactored to properly implement Constructor injection wherever possible.
- We've split Restier registration to feel more like .NET Core. Services are now registered at startup, and no longer have to rely on implementing a ConfigureApi override in your API classes.
- We've decoupled the EF provider from ASP.NET Classic, so you can build CQRS APIs in Restier without unnecessary dependencies. 
    - **NOTE:** `Microsoft.Restier.AspNet`'s NuGet package dependency on `Microsoft.Restier.EntityFramework` will be removed in the next release.
- Route mapping now registers a `RestierBatchHandler` for you by default.
- You can now correctly specify whether detailed stack traces (cleaned up through [Ben.Demystifier](https://github.com/benaadams/Ben.Demystifier)) are returned when an exception is thrown. [See this example](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Samples.Northwind.AspNet/App_Start/WebApiConfig.cs#L23-L25) for more details.
- You can now throw a `StatusCodeException` to return specific HTTP Status codes and error messages to the API consumer. [See this example](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Tests.AspNet/ExceptionHandlerTests.cs) for more details.

### Dependency Changes
  - Compatible with .NET Framework 4.6.2 and later. (Recommend version 4.7.2 for Azure AppService support)
  - Compatible with `Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection` version 2.2 and later. (Recommend version 3.0)
  - Compatible with `Microsoft.OData.Core` version 7.6.0 and later.
  - Compatible with `EntityFramework` version 6.1.3 and later (recommend version 6.3)
  - Compatible with `Microsoft.AspNet.OData` version 7.2.1 and later.
  - Compatible with `Microsoft.AspNet.WebApi` version 5.2.7 and later.

### API Changes
- The entire framework has been massively refactored:
    - Projects have been converted to the new SDK-style projects.
    - Project names and package names have been simplified, and in come cases, reverted to earlier incarnations.
    - Namespacing has been simplified.
    - Base implementations have been prefixed with "Default" more consistently, to make it easier to differentiate implementations in providers and unit tests.
    - Entity-Framework specific interface implementations (classes that implement `IModelMapper` or `IModelProducer`, for example) have been prefixed with "EF" (`EFModelMapper`, `EFModelProducer`, etc) to reduce ambiguity.
    - `IServiceCollection.AddService()` methods have been renamed to `IServiceCollection.AddChainedService()` to better explain what is happening under the covers. If you need an unchained service, use the default `IServiceCollection.AddSingleton()` or `IServiceCollection.AddScoped()` methods.
    - `config.MapRestierRoute()` has been changed to `config.MapRestier()` and has simplified the parameters.
    - Pluralization of Convention-Based methods [has been fixed](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/issues/624). Filters now use the plural form of your objects, and Insert/Update/Delete interceptors now use the singular form.
    - Unnecessary exception types have been eliminated. 

### Upgrade Instructions
- Move services previously registered under `EntityFrameworkApi.ConfigureApi()` in your Restier API to `config.UseRestier()` in your WebApiConfig. [See this example](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Samples.Northwind.AspNet/App_Start/WebApiConfig.cs#L35-L40) for more details.
- If you are building an API based on an Entity Framework `DbContext`, register for the EF6 Provider in `config.UseRestier()`. [See this example](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Samples.Northwind.AspNet/App_Start/WebApiConfig.cs#L33) for more details.
- Change your `config.MapRestierRoute()` to `config.MapRestier()`. [See this example](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Samples.Northwind.AspNet/App_Start/WebApiConfig.cs#L45) for more details.
- Change your `[Operation]` attributes to specify an `OperationType` instead of using `HasSideEffects`. The compiler warning gives you information on how to fix it, [see this example](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Tests.Shared/Scenarios/Library/LibraryApi.cs#L56-L66) for more details.
- Fix the pluralization of your Interceptors. [See this example](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Samples.Northwind.AspNet/Controllers/NorthwindApi.cs#L24-L41) for more details.
    - [Breakdance.Restier](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Breakdance.Restier) can generate a [VisibilityMatrix](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Tests.AspNet/Baselines/LibraryApi-ApiSurface.txt) that shows you the method names Restier expects based on your model. [See this example](https://github.com/OData/RESTier/blob/master/src/Microsoft.Restier.Tests.AspNet/FeatureTests/MetadataTests.cs#L34-L42) for more details.
